[#22] Add tutorial section for snake input controls (#23)
codecurious-bln/elixir_snake: docs/tutorial/04-control-snake-movements.md

### 4. Control snake movements

> Awesome! Our snake moves fast tile by tile, but we cannot control it yet. Kinda boring, isn't it?

Reviewer: 💚

In order to control the snake, we need to handle keyboard inputs when pressing any arrow key and change the snake direction accordingly.

☝️ Remember, the direction is saved in the scene's state as a tuple `{x, y}`.

We need to map all the arrow keys inputs into our direction system:

- when pressing the left arrow key ⬅️, the snake direction needs to be set to `{-1, 0}`.
- when pressing the right arrow key ➡️, the snake direction needs to be set to `{1, 0}`.
- when pressing the up arrow key ⬆️, the snake direction needs to be set to `{0, -1}`.
- when pressing the down arrow key ⬇️, the snake direction needs to be set to `{0, 1}`.

And eventually, we need to ignore any other keypress input (e.g. space bar, return, etc.).

Scenic conveniently provides us the [`handle_input/3`](https://hexdocs.pm/scenic/Scenic.Scene.html#c:handle_input/3) callback to implement it.

> Coach: Explain what a callback is and how it is used for defining behaviours.

> `handle_input/3` is invoked when the scene receives an input from a driver. Then, the handler can consume the received input and either propagate it to the scene above in the ViewPort's structure or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`handle_input/3` is invoked when the scene receives input from the underlying hardware. It may consume the received input message or propagate it further up the View Port's supervision structure.
```

I think propagating it up to another "scene" is not entirely right but also not suuuper crucial to explain here. I'd therefore just go for the generic "up the supervision structure" 🤷‍♂ . Aside that, I'm not sure if Scenic's concept of "driver" was yet explained 🤔. Maybe indicating that it's the hardware layer is enough for here? What do you think?

Author: > I think propagating it up to another "scene" is not entirely right but also not suuuper crucial to explain here

I agree 👍 
FYI, I copied that from the docs 📖 
> When input arrives at a scene, you can consume it, or pass it along to the scene above you in the ViewPort's supervision structure.

https://hexdocs.pm/scenic/Scenic.Scene.html#c:handle_input/3

Good point! Better not introducing another concept (the `driver`).

> In our case, we will use the handler to update the direction in the scene's state without propagating the received input further since it's not needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our case, we will use the handler to update the direction in the scene's state without propagating the received input further up.
```

> Coach: Explain event bubbling and ViewPort's supervision structure.

> Coach: Explain what is an input and how it [differs from events](https://hexdocs.pm/scenic/Scenic.Scene.html#module-input-vs-events).

`handle_input/3` requires three arguments:

> - the input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the input message
```

Author: @klappradla sometimes we are using `input` and sometimes `input message`. Do you think this can lead to confusion?

Reviewer: Hm, you're right. I guess we should then just simply go for `input`. The data structure behind, the "how" an input is received by the function is probably not necessary to know for people going through the tutorial.

- the input's context (👈 ignore it, we won't need it)
- the scene's current state

And, in our case, it will always return a tuple like `{:noreply, new_state}` where:

> - `:noreply` indicates that the input won't be propagated up to the parent scene.

Reviewer: 💚

- `new_state` is the new state of the scene with the updated direction based on the received input.

The input is described using a `tuple`. For example, the left arrow key ⬅️ input is described as:

```
{:key, {"left", :press, 0}}
```

The first element of the tuple `key` describes the kind of input received.

The second element of the tuple is another tuple `{"left", :press, 0}` where:

> - `"left"` describes which key has been pressed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"left"` describes which key has been interacted with
```

- `:press` describes the kind of interaction (`:press`, `:release` or `:repeat`)

> - `0` is the modifier value, which becomes non-zero when we press the key while holding another key like Shift or CTRL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `0` is the modifier value, which becomes non-zero when we press the key while holding another key like <kbd>SHIFT</kbd> or <kbd>CTRL</kbd>.
```

Author: 💡

> Let's add the handlers to our scene!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's add the handlers to our scene! We'll use pattern matching to match the right handler function based on the received input:
```

```elixir

>   # Keyboard controls

Reviewer: Looks like this is indented one level too far 👮

  def handle_input({:key, {"left", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    new_state = put_in(state, [:snake, :direction], {1, 0})
    {:noreply, new_state}
  end

  def handle_input({:key, {"right", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    new_state = put_in(state, [:snake, :direction], {1, 0})
    {:noreply, new_state}
  end

  def handle_input({:key, {"up", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    new_state = put_in(state, [:snake, :direction], {0, -1})
    {:noreply, new_state}
  end

  def handle_input({:key, {"down", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    new_state = put_in(state, [:snake, :direction], {0, 1})
    {:noreply, new_state}
  end

  # Ignore all the other inputs
  def handle_input(_input, _context, state), do: {:noreply, state}
```

> ☝️ We use the pattern matching to match the handler based on the received input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

☝️ The [`put_in`](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Kernel.html#put_in/2) helper is used to update the `direction` in the scene's state.

> And here we are, now we can control the snake 🎉

Reviewer: Maybe we can use a gif here for how the result should look like 🤔

Author: Absolutely! I added it, then maybe we will need to update it depending on your PR, let's see.

Reviewer: Thanks 💚 

It's ace and I don't really expect the other PR to change the look too much. We eventually have to do a bit of resizing to the frame... But it shouldn't make a big difference for the gif.

> We can slightly simplify the code and extract a common utility to compute the new state.

Reviewer: 💚

```elixir

>   # Keyboard controls

Reviewer: Same here: looks like this is indented one level too far 👮

  def handle_input({:key, {"left", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    {:noreply, update_snake_direction(state, {-1, 0})}
  end

  def handle_input({:key, {"right", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    {:noreply, update_snake_direction(state, {1, 0})}
  end

  def handle_input({:key, {"up", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    {:noreply, update_snake_direction(state, {0, -1})}
  end

  def handle_input({:key, {"down", :press, _}}, _context, state) do
    {:noreply, update_snake_direction(state, {0, 1})}
  end

  # Ignore all the other inputs
  def handle_input(_input, _context, state), do: {:noreply, state}

  # Change the snake's current direction.
  defp update_snake_direction(state, direction) do
    put_in(state, [:snake, :direction], direction)
  end
```

> ☝️ Please note that the newly extracted function `update_snake_direction` is private.

Reviewer: 💚

- the input message
- the input's context (👈 ignore it, we won't need it)
- the scene's current state

And, in our case, it will always return a tuple like `{:noreply, new_state}` where:

- `:noreply` indicates that the input won't be propagated up to the parent scene.
- `new_state` is the new state of the scene with the updated direction based on the received input.

The input is described using a `tuple`. For example, the left arrow key ⬅️ input is described as:

```
{:key, {"left", :press, 0}}
```

The first element of the tuple `key` describes the kind of input received.

The second element of the tuple is another tuple `{"left", :press, 0}` where:

- `"left"` describes which key has been interacted with
- `:press` describes the kind of interaction (`:press`, `:release` or `:repeat`)
- `0` is the modifier value, which becomes non-zero when we press the key while holding another key like <kbd>Shift</kbd> or <kbd>CTRL</kbd>.

Let's add the handlers to our scene! We'll use pattern matching to match the right handler function based on the received input:

```elixir
# Keyboard controls
def handle_input({:key, {"left", :press, _}}, _context, state) do

>   new_state = put_in(state, [:snake, :direction], {1, 0})

Author: @LuisaAPF ohh good catch 🙏  I'll update right now 😉
